International | Previous | Next U.N. Assembly session in doubt By Sridhar Krishnaswami UNITED NATIONS, SEPT. 12. The horrific terrorist attacks in the United States have stunned the diplomatic community. The 56th General Assembly session that was scheduled to open on Tuesday has now been re-scheduled for Wednesday afternoon, this again is only tentative and depends on the security situation. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, said everyone was ``traumatised'' by the terrible tragedy and added that terrorism must be fought resolutely ``wherever it appears''. Members of the Security Council too condemned ``in the strongest terms the horrifying terrorist attacks''. In recent years, no one in the comity of nations has had any patience while tackling terrorism; and the Security Council in an almost routine fashion has unanimously passed resolutions against terrorism. Both Russia and China have backed the U.S. when it comes to Osama bin Laden and his brand of terrorism. The 38-storeyed United Nations compound in downtown Manhattan has been evacuated. With the terror attacks comes the question of future high-profile meetings at the United Nations. Officials say the special session on children expected to be attended by 75 Heads of State and Government next week will be evaluated on a day-to-day basis. So far, no one, either at the United Nations or in Washington, has spoken about leaders addressing the General Assembly. On September 24, the U.S. President, Mr. George W Bush will make his maiden address to the United Nations followed by speeches by a number of Heads of State and Government, including those of Pakistan and India. In the aftermath of the attacks, the secret service will have to work out the New York schedule of the U.S. President as he will be holding a number of bilateral meetings. Prior to the Tuesday horror, there was a view in the U.N. that some progress could be made when the Palestinian leader, Mr. Yasser Arafat came to New York for the General Assembly session. In fact, top officials of the world body asked the Israeli Prime Minister, Mr. Ariel Sharon, to attend the sessions in the hope that a meeting of the two West Asia leaders could be arranged. While this was a dim prospect, a meeting between Mr. Bush and the Palestinian leader was seen as more probable. The American President was asked to meet Mr. Arafat, a person the White House has kept at a distance over the last eight months. This meeting is now in doubt. Mr. Arafat has denounced the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington D.C., but reports speak of Palestinians in the West Bank and in the Gaza openly celebrating the attacks. The sober elements in this country know that Mr. Arafat cannot be blamed, but this is an emotional time in America. The Bush administration, while leaning toward the belief that the Saudi national and fugitive Osama bin Laden may be responsible for the co-ordinated attacks, has not ruled out the involvement of radical Palestinian groups. 