Front Page | Previous | Next Woman 'fidayeen' squad in Delhi? By Our Staff Reporter NEW DELHI, AUG. 11. The Prime Minister, Mr. Atal Behari Vajpayee, the Union Home Minister, Mr. L.K. Advani, and another senior Cabinet Minister are on the ``hit-list'' of Pakistan-backed terrorist squads which have been despatched to Delhi to disrupt Independence Day celebrations. And for the first time, a woman squad - trained in armed combat and fidayeen(suicide) attack - has also been sent out to trigger blasts, it is stated. A general alert has been sounded in the city and the police are making elaborate arrangements for the flag-hoisting ceremony at the Red Fort and at Rashtrapati Bhavan for the President's ``at home'' function. The Delhi police today said Independence Day this time would be celebrated under an unprecedented security threat from terrorists trained to mount fidayeen attacks. Renewed orders for such attacks have been issued to terrorist organisations following the failure of the Agra summit. The massacres at Doda and Jammu are merely a prelude to terrorists attack. ``Terrorist outfits have declared their intention through various vernacular newspapers in Pakistan to target the Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleagues on the eve of Independence Day,'' said the Special Commissioner of Delhi Police (Security and Operations), Mr. R. S. Gupta, at a press conference here. The Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists, who were arrested in connection with the explosions at North Block and Army Headquarter's canteen, have also disclosed the organisation's intention to carry out fidayeen attacks. The terrorists have also been ordered to carry out blasts at important installations in the city, such as Army Headquarters and North Block. Apart from the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, the terrorists from Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Al-Badar, the Hizb-ul- Jehad-e-Islami and even Muslim fundamentalist organisations owing allegiance to Osama bin Laden have been co-ordinating to achieve their ``target''. Security arrangements Keeping in view the high threat perception, elaborate security arrangements are being made to ensure a peaceful celebration. Mr. Gupta said surveillance would be carried out through helicopters and close circuit cameras installed at strategic locations. Strong air defence measures have been initiated with the help of defence authorities. Private flights in the neighbouring States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh would be banned on August 15. ``Special watch will be kept through radars and mobile control room vans to detect any suspicious flying objects including micro-light and gliders,,'' Mr. Gupta said. He added that tight security arrangements have been made at railway stations, bus stands, markets and other important places. National Security Guard commandos have already been deployed at the airport considering the seriousness of the threat. Armed commandos and National Security Guard's sharp shooters would be deployed on high-rise buildings around the Red Fort. Mr. Gupta said an area ranging from one to three kilometres from the place of function would be cordoned off. 