National | Previous | Next NHRC orders probe into 'extortion' in jail NEW DELHI, AUG. 19. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has ordered an inquiry into the conduct of jail officials in Rajasthan, after it verified and found true a complaint that the going price for a torture-free stay in a central jail in the State was Rs. 20,000. On receipt of the complaint by a prisoner from the Bikaner Central Jail that the Jail Superintendent had denied him parole to organise the treatment of his ailing wife, who subsequently died, by intentionally falsifying documents, the NHRC in its recent order directed the State Government to pay Rs. 20,000 as immediate interim relief. The Superintendent allegedly used documents belonging to another prisoner, a namesake of the complainant who had been previously released, to dissuade the District Magistrate from granting parole, claiming that the prisoner was likely to escape abroad, the complaint alleged. In response to the Commission, the Superintendent admitted that an error had occurred but maintained that it was a purely clerical one and devoid of any mala fide intent. The NHRC then sent its investigation team to ascertain whether the mix-up was genuine or constituted harassment. According to the team's report, Harbhajan Singh was lodged in the Bikaner Jail, consequent upon his conviction and sentence to life imprisonment in a murder case and the day he was lodged in jail, the Superintendent demanded Rs. 20,000 from his son.``The Superintendent threatened that otherwise his father would have a `bad time' inside the jail,'' the NHRC team said. The son managed to bargain and bring it down to Rs. 14,000 but could only pay Rs. 10,000 on the spot, the team's report said adding that after a few months when Singh's mother expired, he was able to get seven days of emergency parole by paying Rs. 3,000 to the Jail Superintendent as illegal gratification. Singh was also told that he would be required to bring the amount yet unpaid by his son, on his return from home. ``Not being able to pay the Rs. 4,000, he was subjected to harassment and torture by the Superintendent. After some time, when he again left the jail on seven days parole to attend his son's wedding, he was reminded to bring Rs. 4,000,'' it said. ``Out of fear he managed to collect the money this time with great difficulty, and paid it to the Superintendent, the report said adding that much later when he applied for parole on account of his wife's sickness, the Superintendent forged the letter of Singh's namesake who had been released earlier,'' it said. NHRC'S investigation team recommended departmental action against the Jail Superintendent and the senior medical officer and opined that the mistake was `mala fide'. The investigation also revealed acts of extortion and torture of prisoners. The Commission has recommended that the State Government order a thorough inquiry into the unseemly instances of the administration and initiate appropriate action against jail officials found guilty. - PTI 