National | Previous | Next Left against move for logistic support to U.S. By Our Special Correspondent NEW DELHI, SEPT. 14. The Left parties today strongly opposed the reported move of the NDA Government to provide logistic support or involve India in any United States military action in response to terrorist strikes at New York and Washington on Tuesday. A day ahead of the all-party meeting called by the Prime Minister, Mr. A.B. Vajpayee, the CPI(M) and the CPI conveyed their opposition even as the Congress maintained silence over it and the Nationalist Congress Party pledged total support to the move to cooperate with the United States. The CPI(M) politburo reiterated its strong condemnation of the terrorist attacks but said the Bush administration by declaration of war ``arrogated to itself the right to trample upon the United Nations charter and violate the sovereignty of any country''. It said the U.S. should investigate the crime, identify the perpetrators and get the cooperation of other countries and international organisations to apprehend the guilty. ``Instead of doing so, any military action can only lead to loss of many innocent lives and the vicious cycle of violence and the aggravation of international tension,'' the CPI(M) warned. Alleging that the Vajpayee Government did not consider these aspects, the party said it behaved in an ``utterly irresponsible manner'' in keeping with the policy of winning U.S. approval and acting as its junior partner by immediately announcing that India was willing to cooperate with the United States in all ways if the latter decides to launch any military action. The BJP-led Government has already informed the U.S. of its willingness to offer logistic support in India and its military and infrastructural resources for the strikes against Afghanistan. The party reminded that in 1991, for the first time, India had offered refuelling facilities to American war planes for their attack on Iraq and such an event cannot be allowed to be repeated on a larger scale. The CPI(M) said all the democratic forces in the country know the nature of the Taliban regime and sought to remind that it was the United States that financed and equipped the Islamic fundamentalist forces which were fighting in Afghanistan against the Soviet forces and the Najibullah Government. Osama bin Laden was a beneficiary and an operative of the CIA-ISI joint project. Opposing the move to provide support, the CPI Central Secretariat said that jingoistic statements from the Bush administration cause serious alarm for peace-loving people, the world over. Expressing its outrage and profound sorrow on the loss of so many human lives, the CPI said it believed that the moment called for ``calm and not hysteria; initiatives of peace, not war; democracy, not repression''. While advocating that the crisis be answered unitedly by the world community, the CPI said terrorism including State terrorism should be deliberated in the Security Council and the U.N. General Assembly. 