National | Next India shocked, condemns attacks By Our Special Correspondent NEW DELHI, SEPT. 11. India today expressed its shock over the coordinated terrorist strikes in the U.S. and described them as a ``dastardly crime.'' Speaking to reporters after a special meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Jaswant Singh, said that India offered its ``deepest condolences'' to the people, the Government and President of the U.S. India stood by the U.S. and the rest of the international community in its drive to defeat international terrorism, he said. The terrorist violence in the U.S. has cast a shadow on the Prime Minister, Mr. Atal Behari Vajpayee's proposed visit to New York for the U.N. General Assembly session later this month. The UNGA session, Mr. Singh observed, could not begin today because of the terrorist strikes. ``I am not in position to say whether the scheduled meeting would be held,'' he said. According to the Minister, the Prime Minister was planning to get in touch with the U.S. President, Mr. George Bush, soon. Mr. Jaswant said that he had spoken to the U.S. ambassador to India, Mr. Robert Blackwill, and assured him that additional security will be provided to U.S. citizens and properties in India. The Lt. Governor of Delhi, Mr. Vijai Kapur, had been requested to get in touch with the U.S. ambassador and oversee the necessary security arrangements, he said. All the members of the Indian mission in New York and the Consulate General there were safe, he said. Mr. Singh pointed out that he had been personally in touch with the Indian embassy in Washington and its other establishments in New York. Earlier in the evening, Mr. Singh met the Home Minister, Mr. L.K Advani, to consider the fallout of the attacks. He observed that the events in the U.S. would change the complexion of international relations. Analysts here point out that the attacks could have serious repercussions on Pakistan and the Taliban- controlled Afghanistan, if the terrorist group led by Saudi fugitive Osama bin Laden was implicated in the strikes. India's track record, by contrast, in countering international terrorism targeting the U.S. has been fairly good. The Delhi police, for instance, had recently arrested a Sudanese national who was allegedly masterminding a terrorist strike on the U.S. embassy. Mr. Advani pointed out that terrorism had to be combated on an international scale, adding that, India, which had been a target of menace has been urging collective action against extremists. Reacting to the attacks, the U.S. has decided to close its embassy for a day on Wednesday. The American centres in New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata would also remain closed tomorrow. In an advisory issued late this evening, the U.S. embassy said that while it had not received any specific threat to its security, American citizens were advised to exercise ``all possible caution'' while travelling out of their homes. Sections of the diplomatic community in the capital have reacted sharply to the targeting of symbols of American commercial and military power in New York and Washington. The Palestinian Ambassador to India, Mr. Khalid El Sheikh, has deplored the attacks and described them as ``unbelievable.'' He rejected allegations of the possible involvement of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) in the crime. The attacks in the U.S. are expected to have a much larger global impact. Apart form a showdown with the terrorists, today's events are likely to encourage the U.S. to push through its proposal on the National Missile Defence (NMD). 