International | Next Needle of suspicion on Osama bin Laden By Sridhar Krishnaswami NEW YORK, SEPT. 11. The terrorist attacks against the United States in New York and Washington D.C. on Tuesday morning could have claimed "thousands" of lives. The attacks appeared to be extremely well planned and coordinated. The country is witness to scenes of shock and panic in a manner that has not been seen in recent times. U.S. authorities are said to have closed the borders with Canada and Mexico. And aircraft carriers have been moved out of Norfolk, Virginia, and moved to the New York area. In all three hijacked planes were involved in the destruction of the Twin Towers in New York and extensive damages to the Pentagon in the nation's capital. In spite of all the denials of the Taliban, the needle of suspicion is on Osama bin Laden and the fundamentalist outfit in Kabul that is known to protect him. At this time, Osama bin Laden is the prime suspect, especially after what happened to the American Embassies in Africa in 1998 and last year's bombing of the USS Cole. Official Washington has not said much of the attacks but is clearly stunned at the magnitude of the devastation. "This is the second Pearl Harbour. I don't think I overstate it," remarked the Republican Senator, Mr. Chuck Hagel. Troops have been deployed in key areas in Washington and the National Guard has been called out in New York City. Authorities here are asking people to leave Lower Manhattan. The President, Mr. George W. Bush, who was in Florida at the time of the attacks in New York and Washington D.C. left Sarasota but is not coming back to the nation's Capital in view of the security situation. He was initially scheduled to head to the White House. Senior Congressional leaders are also being taken to different and secure locations it is said. Reuters reports: Speaking at the Barksdale Air Force Base, Mr. Bush said the U.S. had taken all appropriate steps to protect the American people and would hunt down and punish those responsible for the attacks. "We have taken all appropriate security precautions to protect the American people," Mr. Bush, facing the first big test of his eight-month presidency, told reporters at a hastily arranged appearance. "Make no mistake, the United States will hunt down and punish those responsible for these cowardly acts." Mr. Bush said the U.S. military had been put on "high alert status" and added that he had taken security precautions to ensure the proper functioning of the Government. "Freedom itself was attacked this morning by a faithless coward," Mr. Bush said. "Freedom will be defended." 