International | Previous | Next Do not rush to conclusions: Taliban By B. Muralidhar Reddy ISLAMABAD, SEPT. 11. The Taliban tonight urged the United States to be cautious in its response to the terrorist attacks in Washington and New York and warned that it would be a `big mistake' on its part if it were to decide to strike at Afghanistan on suspicion on involvement of either Osama bin Laden or anyone else from the country. Addressing a hurriedly convened news conference here at his residence, the Taliban Ambassador to Pakistan, Mullah Zaeef, counselled the Bush administration to go for a thorough investigation on the incidents before arriving at any conclusion. ``It is not true. Osama or his associates are not involved in the incidents. They do not have capability to carry out such attacks,'' he said in response to questions about the suspicions in U.S. about the involvement of followers of Osama in the attacks. Asked if he feared any attacks by the U.S. in the wake of the latest developments, as it happened in 1998 in the wake of Okhama bombings, the Taliban Ambassador said that ``we do not apprehend any such attacks. If they are preparing to target our country all I can say is it would be a big mistake.'' The Ambassador read out a brief prepared statement condemning the attacks on New York and Washington. ``We want to tell the American people that Afghanistan feels the pain of the people of U.S. We hope the terrorists and the people behind the attacks are caught and brought to justice''. In response to questions, the Ambassador said that Afghanistan was waiting for the American investigations to reveal as to who is behind the dastardly attacks. He said it would not be proper on the part of anyone to rush to conclusions and every one should wait for the outcome of the investigations. ``It is not true,'' was his brief response when asked about the suspicion that the Saudi billionaire who is hiding in Afghanistan could be behind the attacks. ``It would be a mistake to come to any such conclusion. I hope they (U.S.) would be very careful before reaching to any conclusions.'' Mullah Zaeef was not prepared to answer any further questions. The Pakistani security agencies went on high alert hours after the incidents in New York and Washington. One could see extra deployment of security in and around the American buildings and offices in Islamabad. In a related development, the Pakistani military leader and President of Pakistan, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, sent a message to the American President, Mr. George Bush, condemning the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. AP reports from Kabul: The Taliban's Foreign Minister swiftly condemned today's devastating terrorist attacks in the United States and rejected suggestions that Osama bin Laden, could be behind them. "We have tried out best in the past and we are willing in the future to assure the United States in any kind of way we can that Osama is not involved in these kinds of activities," the Taliban's Foreign Minister, Mr. Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil, told reporters. Accused by Washington of running an international terrorist network in Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden, has lived here since 1996. 