National | Previous | Next U.S. urged to protect Sikhs By Our Special Correspondent NEW DELHI, SEPT. 13. The National Commission for Minorities (NCM), today urged the United States of America to protect the Sikhs there, as some members of the community were reportedly attacked during the last two days. Reacting to the reported attack on the Sikh community, the NCM Vice Chairman, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, today urged the U.S. Ambassador to India, Mr. Robert D.Blackwill, and the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Jaswant Singh, to intervene. Mr. Tarlochan Singh said Sikhs were being seen as followers of Osama bin Laden because of their white turban and flowing beard. ``You are well aware that Sikhs are of different religion and have a different identity and they have always been suffering for centuries from the terrorists or invaders from Afghanistan,'' Mr. Tarlochan Singh said in his letter to the U.S. Ambassador, a copy of which was released to the press. Mr. Singh said he had received several telephone calls from Sikhs in the U.S. that they were roughed up during the last two days and in some cases even the police detained many turbaned Sikhs. Urging the U.S. Ambassador's intervention to protect the Sikh community, he also requested that the people in the U.S. be told through the media that the Sikhs had a separate religious identity. In his letter to the External Affairs Minister, he said that Sikhs had been at the receiving end even during 1976 when there was a clash between Americans and Iranians, with many mistaking them to be followers of Ayatollah Khomeini and later in 1991 when terrorists bombed the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi. The Sikhs were troubled by the Taliban supporters in Afghanistan, he said and urged the Centre to take up the issue with the U.S. Government. Incidents against Sikhs PTI reports: There have been isolated incidents against the Sikh community in New York in the aftermath of the terrorist strikes. Official sources today said while it was difficult to hazard a guess on what prompted this, it could possibly be Sikhs being mistaken for Arabs. India's Consul-General in New York, Mr. S. Tripathi, is in touch with the city police which has promised to provide additional patrol in areas having Indian establishments, an External Affairs Ministry spokesperson told reporters. 