International | Previous 'Israel responsible for attacks' By B. Muralidhar Reddy ISLAMABAD, SEPT. 13. Newspapers here appear convinced about the possibility of an U.S. attack on Afghanistan as the American press is beginning to increasingly focus on the alleged involvement of supporters of Osama bin Laden in the terrorist strikes in New York and Washington. The Urdu daily, Nawai Waqt, quoted a foreign policy expert expressing fears that the attack might be launched from Tajikistan, where the U.S. has military bases. It quoted the expert as saying that the planning of the attacks was enough evidence that only people with enormous resources had designed it. According to him, if the U.S. made any attempt to involve Pakistan, it would be a major blunder. Also, Pakistan should not allow the U.S. to use its soil for launching attacks on Afghanistan. Some military experts have said that the U.S. would be committing a mistake by attacking Afghanistan. The former ISI chief, Lt. Gen.(retd.) Hameed Gul, said that Israel was responsible for the attacks. He said the Pentagon was a no-fly zone; if aircrafts entering its airspace failed to provide their identity, guns attached to its radar system would open fire. But no such thing happened. Quoting Lt. Gen. Hameed Gul, the paper said, the tussle which started between Mr. Bush and Mr. Al Gore at the time of the U.S. general elections in September was still on, and that the Zionist lobby had not forgiven the former. Moreover, the Israeli Prime Minister had stated on CNN that he would set Washington afire. Other Pakistani dailies, quoting diplomatic sources, said that the U.S. was facing two hurdles in attacking Afghanistan. First, it was not sure as to which targets should be attacked as war- torn Afghanistan had no military or economic targets. The sources said the U.S. could only target Osama bin Laden's hideouts, Mullah Omar's residence and administrative offices of the Taliban in Candor and Kabul. The second problem the U.S. was facing is that it didn't have any specific clues about Osama's hideouts. 