Opinion | Previous | Next Its changing face Sir, - September 11 will forever be etched in the history of the U.S. as a macabre theatrical manifestation of the post-Cold War realities. The events have made a mockery of the ambitious and polemical American programme of National Missile Defence system. This time the enemy has struck from within, targeting the two primary pillars of America - its financial and military nerve centres. It is puzzling to note that the U.S. intelligence failed to uncover a plot of such precision and magnitude. This event cannot be treated in isolation as it signals the end of American insulation from world events. It has also proved that no Star Wars programme or National Missile Defence system can shield the world's lone superpower from an enemy which can be as numerous and countless as its faceless visage. The attack has revealed the changing, shifting face of terrorism - which adapts itself to changing situations. From running lucrative drug-dealing businesses in Colombia to running massive inter-state financial operations, like that of Osama bin Laden, and recruiting footsoldiers transcending all boundaries, it signifies the ``clash of civilisations'' as predicted by Samuel Huntington. U.S. foreign policy, not only in Palestine but in the entire West Asia, will need to be reconsidered. Anjum Mirza, Hyderabad Sir, - The world was stunned to see such an act of terrorism committed in a land regarded as a symbol of military might. The remark of the U.S. President, Mr. George Bush, that he will make no distinction between those who committed the act and the countries which harboured the terrorists, is reassuring. And condolence messages pouring into the U.S. from different States may open up a democratic humanistic global front to fight terrorism. As Sri Aurobindo said, the night is darkest before the dawn. The entire humanity is behind the grief-stricken Americans. This will undoubtedly strengthen the U.N. and under its aegis, this menace can be successfully dealt with. Anil Kumar Mohapatra, Bhadrak, Orissa 