Features | Previous | Next Confluence of art, lore and religion The beauty of the temple of Lord Mangalanathaswami in Utharakosamangai defies description, writes K. VENKATACHARI. ADORED BY the sages of yore and celebrated by the great Saiva Saint, Manickavasagar, in his poignant literary work, ``Thiruvasagam'', stands the magnificent temple of Utharakosamangai. Situated at a distance of 15 km. south west of Ramanathapuram (Ramnad railway station), the sacred shrine with imposing towers, dedicated to Lord Mangalanathaswami and Goddess Mangalambikai, is significantly noted for its unique idol of Lord Nataraja made of 'maragatha' (emerald stone). The name ``Utharakosamangai'' is made up of three words Uthara, Kosa and Mangai. Lord Siva is believed to have expounded the secrets of the scriptures (Vedas) to His consort, Parvathi , at this holy place and the word ``Utharakosamangai'', signifies it. It is said that long ago, a thousand ascetics assembled at this place and did penance. They prayed to Lord Siva to manifest Himself and bless them. The Lord assured them that he would respond to their desire in due course and hastened to Sri Lanka. He entrusted the responsibility of safeguarding the Veda Agama Sastras to one of the sages. Mandodhari, wife of Ravana, noted for her virtue and chastity, undertook severe austerities and prayed to Lord Siva. The Lord appeared before her in the form of a baby. Fascinated by the beauty and charm of the child, King Ravana took it in his arms. At that very moment, a miracle occurred in Utharakosamangai. An enormous flame radiating divine light all round, emerged from the spring called ``Agni Theertham''. The 1,000 sages realised that their prayer had been answered, and paid their homage to the Divine Flame. They were so enchanted by the heavenly radiance that they totally forgot themselves, plunged into the spring and vanished. But the solitary sage who was vested with the task of protecting the Veda Agamas spared himself. Pleased with selfless devotion of the sages, Lord Siva appeared before them with His consort and transformed all the sages into 999 lingams. The Lord Himself took the cardinal place among them as a mighty Lingam. Then the Lord's gaze turned towards the particular sage who had been in charge of the Veda Agamas. He showered His benediction on him and bade him be born as a Saiva saint, to serve Lord Siva and the Tamil Language. And Manickavasaga was born. Greatly moved by the soulful outpourings of the celestial songs of the saint, G.U. Pope not only translated the great work, ``Thiruvasagam'' into English but also pronounced it as the very echo of Christ's Sermon on the Mount. The temple received benefaction from the hands of the Sethupathi Rulers of Ramanathapuram. Earlier, the Pandya kings had gifted lands to the temple. The Vijayanagara Kings too attended to the welfare and promotion of the temple. The Utharakosamangai temple has two mighty gopurams (towers). The stucco-work of the temple towers are noted for their matchless beauty. In the front portion of Lord Nataraja's shrine there are exquisite paintings of the late 18th century in Nayak style. The 10 incarnations of Lord Vishnu are beautifully painted on the ceiling. There are also pictures of ``rasis'' and ``grahas'' and charming arrays of dancing damsels and musicians playing on different musical instruments. The image of Maragatha Nataraja is always kept covered with sandal paste which is removed only once a year, on the day of ``Arudra Darsanam.'' It is said that the radiance of the idol is too much for the common man's eye and hence it is always kept covered so. The image of Dakshinamurthy seated cross-legged, in a meditative pose is uncommon and is considered a rare piece of art. On the pillars too there are beautiful carvings of Gods but unfortunately they have been eroded by the fury of time. 