National | Previous | Next Security on high alert By Our Staff Reporter NEW DELHI, AUG. 14. With the threat of a ``fidayeen'' attack looming large in the wake of ``renewed orders for such attacks to terrorist organisations following the failed Agra summit'', elaborate security arrangements -- including strong air defence measures -- have been put in place for the Independence Day function at Red Fort here tomorrow. The entire Delhi police would be out on the roads from early morning to ensure a peaceful culmination of the Independence Day celebrations. Besides, about 7,000 personnel of ``outside'' force would be deployed on security duty, for which detailed planning has been done by the Delhi police in close coordination with the Army, para-military forces and intelligence agencies. Since the threats are primarily from Pakistan-based militant outfits, such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and the Al Badr and the Hizb-ul-Jehad-e-Islami, besides some fundamentalist organisations bearing allegiance to international terrorist, Osama bin Laden, security measures of the highest order have been taken. Following the attack by Lashkar-e-Taiba militants on Red Fort in December last, the security agencies are extra cautious this time round. But despite the heightened security threat, the Delhi police have not cancelled leaves of its personnel this year. This is contrary to what was witnessed during Republic Day celebrations when the leaves of the security personnel had been cancelled a month before the big day in view of the Red Fort attack. While surveillance is being carried out through helicopters and close-circuit cameras, which have been installed for the first time at strategic locations this year, strong air defence measures have also been initiated with the help of Defence authorities, who have positioned a number of anti-aircraft guns all around Red Fort. The authorities have also banned all private flights in the neighbouring States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and have deployed radars and mobile control room vans to detect any suspicious flying objects, including micro-lights and gliders. The police have also sealed the entrances to rooftops of buildings in the areas surrounding Red Fort and along the route the Prime Minister would take to the venue. On many of these buildings, National Security Guard sharpshooters have been deployed. The agency's commandos have also been deployed at the IGI Airport as part of the anti-sabotage operations. The police have intensified checking and searches for suspicious objects and persons at important places such as railway stations, Inter-State Bus Terminus and various markets. Simultaneously, checking and frisking of people, verification of residents, tenants and persons living in guest houses around Red Fort and other sensitive areas have also been going on. Contingency plans have also been put in place and fire service, medical teams, ambulances and hospitals have been put on high state of alert. Since the intelligence reports have also warned of a fidayeen attack by a woman squad -- trained in armed combat -- this time, the police have made several layers of security rings around the venue. For crossing each, a person would have to pass through metal detectors. Special emphasis has been put on frisking people to avoid any attack by a `human bomb'. 